2017-01-17               Yu-Jie Lin               CC0               ----------


                              After You've Gone


Regrets, I thought I'd not have any, but I do.  This would have been written a 
few months ago, but every time when the thought of writing this came up, it 
made me somewhat trapped in an endless loop.

December 15, 2013, I met a programmer on GitHub through a bug I reported, then 
we had a few email exchanges on various topics and worked a few projects.

As the time went on, I began to notice that he was very enthusiastic in 
programming, always learning new languages and tools, participating in coding 
jam. That's what impressed me the most and I admired his energy to pursue all 
the new stuff, which I prefer not to learn.

It seemed unavoidable that we talked about things outside of codes in those 
emails, although I didn't pay much attention at the time, because on Internet, 
I purposely try not to get too personal, I used to tell myself, they are 
acquaintances, not friends.

When I didn't get email replies from him in February, 2015, I began to worry 
and wondered what happened to him.  He always replied, even it could be a bit 
late, but not for more than a week.  A year later, after all my attempts to 
contact him failed, the only conjecture in my mind was one thing I truly hoped 
that it wouldn't be true.

Few months later, I finally got in contact with his sister, but my fear became 
real. He has passed away in January, 2015. I can still remember that I stared 
at the Facebook chat message in shock, even that's the only possibility in my 
mind.  I don't know what exactly happened to him, it's not as if I couldn't 
ask, but I fear the answer would make me feel worse.

For the last few months, I've thought about him from time to time and many 
other things, such as life and death.  It's almost as if I was reflecting my 
own life with his death, but what hitting me harder than others is the regret 
I have.

His death also made me think about the continuation of open source projects 
after the deaths of sole maintainers. It's open source, the code would 
continue one way or another, but it'd not be graceful or respectful, because 
it could take up to years before someone decides to step up, but not after 
lots of open issues and even some demands for responses.

Even I only knew him for about a year, I know he would make something 
outstanding in the future, he would achieve something great, not just in 
coding, he also had interest in music.

None of those is possible anymore, life sometimes is cruel and perhaps unfair.

After you've gone, I wish that I'd tried to know you better and put more 
efforts to work with you, and I regret that I've only realized that you've 
always been a friend and I'd never told you that.
