2016-12-10               Yu-Jie Lin               CC0               ----------


                               24 Hours in A&E

                                Channel 4 (UK)


What could be any interests in an A&E department is that I wondered when I 
first heard of the show.  I didn't find out until I watched the second episode 
of series six, and I was hooked since then.

24 Hours in A&E is a medical documentary, filmed in Resus and Walk-in areas of 
a hospital.  If you have watched a few episodes, you will know it's not about 
medicine, it's about the people, the patients, the relatives and friends, and 
the staff.  It's not about the emergencies, it's about the stories around the 
emergencies, the life stories of, the experiences of, and the up-and-downs of 
the people.

When you see the relatives or friends being brought in by nurse or doctor to 
see the patients, before a single word, you can still feel the emotions from 
their facial expression and the interactions with the patients.  Sometimes, 
it's too hard to watch.  But that's not all, not at all, because there is also 
cheerful moments and the room could be filled with happiness.

In one of the recent episodes, "You've Got a Friend in Me," you can see the 
friendship in two bricklayers, and hear the story about the patient's dead son 
from the friend. Two big guys, one injury, and life-long friendship.

The episode after is "In Sickness and in Health," 7-day newlyweds, a 
27-year-old husband was having cardiac arrest on ice hockey rink and had to be 
put into induced coma to preserve brain function.  As the wife asking a doctor 
about what's going to be for him, the doctor could only tell her that they do 
not know until he wakes up. You can hear the uncertainty in the wife's voice, 
you can see the compassion in doctor as the camera only focusing on him.

Although in resus, it could be too heavy on heart, but the stories, or rather, 
the conversations in the Walk-in could very well lighten up everyone's heart 
and make you laugh out loud.  While waiting for the calls, the smalltalk 
topics between the patients and friends and family are without any limits or 
reservations.  One time, a couple had a big-thing-down-there joke.

I particularly like the paediatric walk-in patients, children are hilarious, 
especially with their parents, who would try to negotiate, so the children 
would accept the treatments willingly.  But some happily accepted, because 
they could have a day off, or having a first broken limb cast for showing off 
at school.  Beside kids, some injuries could make you guess how that could 
even happen.

Hospital, it's also a place for birth and death, but I believe I've only seen 
one pronounced dead in an episode.  In the end scenes, that's the 
medical-and-life updates of the patiences, almost all were discharged and 
treated successfully, but a few would have some complications and passed away, 
unfortunately.

One thing I learned from the show is it's not like in medical drama at all, 
there is no rush or any dramatic actions, everything is proceeded in calmly 
fashion.  No one running or shouting. Yes, there is blood, but I have not seen 
any crazy spewing.

24 Hours in A&E makes me feel like a human.
