2017-04-20               Yu-Jie Lin               CC0               ----------


                                 The Expanse

                                  Syfy (US)


Only started with season two, and I wished I have started with first one, but 
I might read the books instead of going back to watch the whole first season.

There is one part I like the most, the accidental invention of the Epstein 
Drive, the flashblacks of the first and last test drive of the inventor 
Solomon Epstein.  It's not just the story, but also the realistic setting, the 
book is a hard science fiction, so no warp drive, not yet anyway.

Expanse has warships, that travels in space, but as far as hard science can 
go, they blaze with torrents of bullets, not phasers; they blow up targets 
with at most nuclear warheads, not photon torpedoes.

It's realistic to the foreseeable future, but it still gets you pumped, 
without though light shows in the space battles from Star Trek.  Even the 
ground troops, for instance, the scene of Martian Marine training, are 
definitely getting you some action-packed moments.

However, I was a bit disappointed when Draper in powersuit busted in to 
Avasarala's recuse in the season two finale, the action is kind of mediocre.  
It is bit harsh to criticize, because she brought a armor to a flesh fight, 
she probably could kill them by a flick of finger, if that is possible.  Let's 
hope there would be more of armored battles.

The relations between Earth, Mars, and the Belt; and more importantly, the 
lives of the people who get caught in between, those conflicts and tensions.  
The pride, imagine that you have to stand on your feet, walking into embassy 
with heads up straight, but the gravity is pulling you down hard.  The hatred, 
even you are a refugee, they will still throw you out of airlock if you were 
born on opposite side.

The protomolecule, that blue glowing thing.  Frankly, I feel this PM is the 
only thing soft, it's a mystery.  I don't mean it's not possible, but making a 
warp drive might be more plausible than finding a PM in space.

It's science fiction after all, the show has to have something that shocks and 
even carries horrific effect, either disaster or eating-everyone-alive PM.

A catalyst if you will, stirring up stories around it, wrapping the characters 
about it.  Without it, it's just political drama with science fiction 
elements, nuclear missiles flying in space, and Chrisjen Avasarala threatening 
you not to fuck with her.  Oh, and don't forget the Mormons, they are still 
preaching.
