2017-04-07               Yu-Jie Lin               CC0               2017-04-24


                                 Line of Duty

                                   BBC (UK)


Normally, I don't watch police procedural drama, especially the American 
shows.  They tend to follow into similar format and development, and the side 
stories beside the main arc, more or less the recycled stories from other 
shows.  Even the main arc is so predictable, nine out of ten is mole or 
corrupted cops.

I can't honestly say Line of Duty doesn't fall into the same trap, however, 
it's the whole point for it, because the AC-12, the anti-corruption unit 
investigates those.  To put it blatantly and pretty inaccurately, the subjects 
are the cops.

Only six episodes per series except first series, currently in its fourth 
series.  I started with the third, then went back to the first two.  Even I 
didn't know the stories about Tommy and The Caddy, or even DCI Denton, who was 
one critical character to the series, I was hooked and only wished I'd have 
watched from the beginning.

The suspenses and the tensions during interviews and the twists are the 
reasons why I enjoy this show.  You get all three of them right after 
Superintendent Hasting charged Denton, who immediately put (unlawful) 
evidences of her interviewers on tape.  In the end of second series, Dryden 
called Denton "manipulative" which I absolutely agreed.

There are a couple of things I dislike.  One is subtle rivalry, DS Arnott and 
DC Fleming, Fleming and subordinates of subjects during undercovers.  It 
happens in real-life, but it seems like a constant element throughout series, 
just to stir the water a bit.

Speaking of undercovers, that brings up the second thing, the methods of 
Fleming employs, it seems she always tries to suggest the subject with illegal 
actions in order to get rid of incriminating evidences if there is any, none 
of the subjects ever takes her suggestions but cautions her.

Six episodes, six hours for each series.  It beats those 24-episode dragging 
season shows by ten fold.  You can binge one series in just six hours and it 
would get your mind wondering the plot and things you might miss.  You might 
think you can't even sit through six hours, but once ten minutes into first 
episode, before you know it, you are already halfway into the series.

Line of Duty, the title is also the element in the show.  From DS Arnott being 
true in the line of duty on the killing of innocent man, DCI Gates killed -- 
actually a suicide -- in line of duty, DI Denton still being a police to the 
end in the line of duty, Sergeant Waldron and DCI Huntley crossed the line of 
duty.

This is about what I thought of Line of Duty, but if you are still unsure, try 
listen to its End Title Theme by Carly Paradis.
